![](media/image1.jpeg){width="5.104166666666667in"
height="4.147135826771653in"}IT Physical Security Policy

This policy is informed by
[NIST.SP.800-116r1](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-116r1.pdf)

V.1.0\
Updated 20 September 2023\
Written by Jackson Duong

**Business Level Information**

Consider these suggestions for helping to improve your businesses
physical security:

Choose the best possible location to store data and backups to minimize
damage from natural disasters.

Clearly define public and restricted areas of operation. Only allow
access to personnel with proper identification.

Install a fence that surrounds the perimeter of your business, to
provide a buffer of at least 20 feet.

Have security guards where and when needed.

Equip your company with CCTV (closed-circuit television), to protect
important areas of your business.

Follow proper fire code procedures, such as installing fire alarms and
fire extinguishers. Regularly follow-up to make sure they are in working
order.

Have proper door fitment to the frame without any gaps and use locks
that would be hard to compromise.

Do not place windows where important assets are kept. Keep these out of
sight, out of mind.

Install adequate lighting in and around your business.

Install an alarm system to minimize the risk of theft, or reduce loss in
the event of a theft.

Uninterruptible Power Supplies (UPSs) and/or surge-protectors should be
considered for all company systems.

Consider purchasing locked shredding bins for employees to properly
dispose of secure documents.

**Background**

Physical security can be your first line of defense and securing it
properly can help protect your business as well as personal safety. We
can create guidelines to ensure that your business's information,
resources, and facilities are protected from danger, damage, or theft.
To do that we need to identify critical assets and make a plan to
protect them.

**Objective**

The goal of this policy is to clearly define the rules that our company
has regarding physical security.

**Scope**

This policy applies to all employees of this company and has guidelines
for both the business and individual employees.\
\
**Policy**

Employees will have their ID badge on at all times and it needs to be
easily visible.

Locked doors shall not be propped open and should remain locked when not
in use.

Employees need to store important documents in a secure,
restricted-access location when not in use and keep track of the
documents when they are removed for use.

Shred or incinerate all documents when they are no longer needed and
dispose of them properly.

Users must log off or shut down their workstations when leaving for an
extended time period, or at the end of the workday.

Employee Signature
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Trainer/Manager Signature
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Current Date
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
